With specifically trackJS,
[LAUGH] because there's your two options,
you can include script tag linking to
your CDN or you can load it yourself.
What would you recommend?
>> So what he's talking about is so
I produce a JavaScript library
that is third party JavaScript.
We have a couple of different
ways that you can include it.
You can either include
directly from our CDN,
which is the easiest way to get started.
Or you can pull the script yourself.
It's the same risk.
But if you reference it from the CDN,
you're trusting us
not to screw up your page, which we are
going to try very hard not to screw it up.
But if you're very concerned about it,
pull it off of MPM and
bundle it in with the rest of your scripts
hosted off of your own network and
then you have complete control.
There is an intermediary step
that you can do is we host,
this isn't just us like a lot
of vendors will do this.
Where you can go to a particular URL and
get the most current version of our script
that has like all the latest bug fixes,
all the latest capabilities.
Or there's a different URL where
you can ask for a named version.
You want script version 2.7.1.
Which we promised we won't ever change,
but you're still
inherently trusting us that like,
our CDN is not going to get hacked or
we're not gonna accidentally change it or
stuff like that.
So if you want to guarantee that you have
control of when changes making your app,
pull your scripts yourself.
Anything beyond that is a balance between
how much do you trust your vendors to not
make changes?
And what's the impact and risk if they do?
Like all things,
it depends on what your app is doing.
Like, if your app fails to people die,
then you wanna be really careful about
who has the ability to break your app.
If your app fails,
somebody is minorly inconvenienced and
they don't really care that much.
They'll do it tomorrow,
then it's not so big a deal, right?
We don't all need the same levels
of risk in our applications.
And so it's up to all of us to look at
our own applications and understand,
what is the risk and impact of outages and
how careful do we need to be above it?
All right, here is our last bug
that we gonna do together today.
And this one is kinda tricky.
This one is something that's
actually happening to all of you.
All of your apps I guarantee
have this problem.
Because it happens to everybody's app and
there's no way you can
really do anything about it.
If any of you have monitoring I
bet you've seen the second one.
jquery is not defined right?
If you've turned on monitoring, you've
probably seen that report once or a while.
And you're like,
how can jquery not be defined?
It's just right there on the page,
like, how could it not be there?
It also manifests itself in my
app as analytics is not defined,
cuz I have some other calls to analytics.
That's the same root issue.
It doesn't happen a lot.
But it happens to some it's not just one
random user with a crazy configuration.
It's happening to a sizable group
of people across a wide time range.
So let's see how could these core
level things like analytics.js and
jquery.js not be defined for
our applications.
All right, so I'm gonna actually
take a look at the source code.
And we're gonna take
a look at analytics.js.
Now analytics,
we're gonna look in source Oops and src.
Now, analytics I use all
over my application.
I use its API to do different things.
I call the,
say I wanna track conversion or
I want to make another call to something.
But there's no real magic
about how it's included.
As we looked at in the last
error that we solved together,
analytics.js is just a vendor script.
And I include that vendor script,
just like any others as a script tag
directly here on my page, here on line 44.
I'm not loading it through
some arcane mechanism.
I'm not like pulling it in and
evaluating it.
I'm not really doing anything.
I'm dropping a script tag on the page.
So how would that,
how would that even fail?
If I just reload my page now and
take a look at my Console,
I'm obviously not getting that error.
It's not happening to me.
It's not happening to everybody.
Let's see if I can recreate it.
So what happens if for whatever reason,
that script tag just wasn't there.
What error would get reported?
So I'm gonna comment that line out,
reload.
And when I do something,
I see analytics is not defined.
So this error seems to happen
when analytics is not there.
Which makes sense based on
the message that it gets created.
But how would that happen?
How could this analytics not happen?
Well, as a few of you had
problems with it earlier today,
one thing could be ad blockers.
In fact, a lot of times it's ad blockers.
Ad blockers go in and
stop certain requests from being made.
Maybe somebody has an ad blocker
that thinks analytics.js
is something bad that we don't want
on the page hence blocking it.
Now I don't have any
ad blockers installed.
But we can simulate some
behavior using some other tools.
Now you don't necessarily
need to have this but
I'm going to kind of show
it off because it's fun.
On Mac there is a application
called Charles which on Windows,
you could also use Fiddler,
if you're familiar with that.
And this is a Web Debugging Proxy.
I really need to purchase a license for
this.
So I don't need to wait the 10
seconds of neg wear for
this thing to purchase because
Charles is really very cool.
It is an HTTP proxy that allows me to
manipulate the traffic as it's going by.
So I can simulate conditions
of my users in a more thorough way than
what I could do with Chrome alone.
For example, what if I wanted to
simulate a bad network connection?
One of the tools that Charles
has is called Throttling.
And what this lets us do is it lets us
set how do we want our network to behave?
Can we simulate somebody
who's on a poor connection?
And not just the chrome level
connection that just slows it down and
introduces latency,
we can actually introduce bad networks.
I have one that I've used before,
I don't have it,
that I call this one, bad 3G on a subway.
That not only is it slow,
3G on subway there it is.
Not only is it slow, but
it occasionally will simply drop packets.
Like will really happen if you are on
a subway or an elevator or anywhere where
you're on a mobile device that sometimes
just loses signal for no apparent reason.
You can do this by not only changing like
the bandwidth and upload limitations and
how to utilize everything is.
You can change the reliability and
stability of the network.
So I'm going to drop
the reliability of my network and
stability of my network to 95%,
still illustrate the point.
So I'm gonna turn this thing on.
It's recording and Throttling.
If I reload my page here,
I had a bunch of stuff break.
That's good.
Sometimes I have to do this like three or
four times to get stuff to break.
So, moment.js failed to come down, because
the content that came down didn't match
how big we thought it was going to be.
The network broke down and the packet
did not come through successfully.
ERR_CONTENT_LENGTH_MISMATCH.
Therefore, we created downstream impacts
we had an error moment is not defined.
And another moment is not defined.
A couple of our ads also failed for
other reasons So
using this in stable network
each time we reload we'll
see slightly different
versions of colossal failure.
This time it came down but
our fonts failed.
This time just the hair ad failed.
So using these search tools we can
simulate how does our application act in
bad connections.
Now, this isn't super common.
Like, you probably don't
see this all the time.
And it's uncommon enough that most
of us didn't know that it happened.
But at the 2016 Google IO conference,
they released some internal
metrics from Android.
And a lot of this was from older Android
that had some connectivity problems.
But they were saying that between one and
4% of all HTTP requests
made from Android failed.
That's a lot.
But if one percent of all
HTTP requests failed,
like that's a lot of requests
that just wouldn't work.
And a lot of applications
Like how would your app act if like,
one out of every
ten of those just would fail to
load randomly for your application.
How does your application look?
Well, in our case,
we have direct evidence that
a bunch of times analytics.js
is failing for us.
So I wanna actually simulate that.
I'm gonna turn off Throttling here.
I'm gonna turn on another tool
in Charles called rewrite.
That enables me to dynamically
rewrite a request that's being made,
which is really cool.
It's actually really useful for more
advanced complicated system debugging.
I have this rule that I
already kind of put together.
Here's a rule that says, hey,
when the request is made here for,
well that I'm going to work,
I gotta change that.
What's that dub.getranter.com now.
Yeah, getrancher.com Port
9000/scripts/vendor/analytics when
that request gets made.
What I want you to do is I want you to not
return the 200 you were thinking you were
gonna return I want you to return a 404.
And I want you to rewrite
the body to be an empty string.
Using this kind of simple rule builder,
you can basically force your local system
to return anything you want to return.
You can intercept third party scripts and
fix their bugs form and
see if you can like confirm or fix.
You can intercept
production environments and
interject your dev environment
into a production request.
You can do all kinds of very
interesting debugging use cases, and
this is available in both Charles and
Fiddler.
So you should check those tools out.
So I'm gonna activate this.
And now if we reload the page,
Hopefully it works as
I think it's going to.
Analytics, it's /vendor/analytics.
Sorry I wrote the rule incorrectly,
/vendor/analytics.
Now it's still coming down.
It's shoot.
Cdn.getranter.com.
There we go.
So now we've made the request and now
analytics.js is coming down with a 404 and
an empty response body because we're
intentionally intercepting in our proxy.
And now we can see what does
our application actually do
when these failures have happened.
And we know these failures have
happened because our monitoring has
told us that has happened
60 times in production.
So let's take a look at this one.
If we look at our Console,
there's no error by default, like, we
see that the script failed to come down.
But it hasn't generated
the JavaScript error yet.
We see the error when we
attempt to do something.
We attempt to create a rant and
it generates this problem.
And so the impact of this error for
those 60 users is that they're
unable to really use the site.
Every time they click rant,
it just generates another error.
So that's not a very good
user experience for them.
If they're one of those unlucky few who
land in this case where some critical
file fails to come down,
they just think get ranter is broken and
useless and they'll go back to Twitter.
And is not what we want at all.
So let's see if we can figure out a way
to do some sort of intelligent fall back.
Because we know that a script
can fail to load sometimes.
So if it fails to load that
sometimes what can we do about it?
Here is where we're
actually making the call.
And inside of that safety
check we did this morning.
The user is about to add a rant, we've
checked to see that there is rant text and
the type of that rant text is a string.
And just before we try and
create that new rant.
We track a conversion.
We track a, this was an important event
that I want to track in my analytics tool.
But this blows up if analytics is not
defined, if that script never came down.
So we should probably safety check that.
And that It's not
a complicated thing to do.
The first time you make a call for
something, make sure it's there.
Because at some small percentage of the
time, single scripts will fail to load.
With this minor change,
if we reload the page here, all I did was
wrap analytics.trackConversion and
an if analytics.
When I reload the page analytics
still doesn't come down.
Under that not save.
I lost my mapping sorry.
Let me make that change again here.
If (analytics),
It's not saving my mapping.
Why is it not saving my mapping?
Map to File System Resource Right,
we'll just change here, adrantView,
Now with that changes in place
according to the Console,
Alex j has still failed to load so
we're still in our fail mode use case.
But now dang it.
[LAUGH] Global values
you need to anchor them.
Sorry.
We need to check if analytics
exists on Window before we call it.
If you reference a global
variable without Window,
that works if you're
just going to call it.
But if it's not there, you actually need
to reference what global object it's on.
So if there is a such
thing is window.analytics,
then let's call analytics.trackConversion.
Now when we actually click on the ramp and
even though analytics has failed to load,
the user can still go on their merry way.
The user does not need to be
aware that I've had a failure.
This can be our little secret.
The only impact really,
in this case of analytics failing to load,
is that I've failed to capture
my conversion metrics.
But the user can go on their merry way